---
created_at: '2025-04-08'
description: Important update about NeSI's Nearline service and transitioning to Freezer, NeSI's new long-term storage platform.
tags: refresh
---

We’re nearly ready to welcome you onto Freezer, NeSI’s new long-term storage platform. Below are important details about our transition from Nearline and our plan for welcoming you onto Freezer. 


##H2 Help us streamline the migration process 

We’re currently migrating your data from Nearline to Freezer so that it is ready and waiting for you on the new platform. To ensure this process runs as efficiently and quickly as possible, please refrain from writing new data or recalling any data after Friday 11 April. If you have an urgent need to write or recall data beyond 11 April, contact NeSI Support.

##H2 Scheduled outage of Nearline

To support our transition to Freezer, we’re scheduling a Nearline service outage starting on Monday 14 April. We expect this outage to last about two weeks, during which you will not be able to read or write data to/from Nearline. 

If you have regular workflows that use Nearline or anticipate needing to read or write data to Nearline during the outage, get in touch with us so that we can help you prepare. 

##H2 Transitioning to Freezer 

To provide more time to complete our migration of data to Freezer, we are working with NIWA to host the NeSI tapes (holding data for the Nearline service) within NIWA’s tape library. We expect this transitional phase to last until late-May. This will enable read access to your data after the Nearline outage if required. 

If you have an urgent need to read/write to your Nearline data during this transitional phase, please reach out.  

##H2 Data management during this transition

The current tapes from Nearline will form part of NIWA’s new long-term storage offering, Rapids. Once all Nearline data has been migrated to NeSI’s Freezer service, its metadata will be removed from Rapids, and over time, the tape storage media will be over-written. This means that the data will be inaccessible on NIWA’s service, however the data itself may be retained until eventual destruction by NIWA when the tapes are decommissioned. We are working with NIWA to ensure that suitable protections are in place and that the data is managed appropriately.

##H2 We’re here to support you

We are ready to provide wrap-around support for you as we modernise and improve our long-term storage service. We have online Office Hours running weekly to talk through any questions you may have or provide one-to-one support. Also, you can email support@nesi.org.nz at any time.

If you plan on accessing data in Nearline at any point over the next month, get in touch with us so we can understand and best support your needs through our upcoming outage and transitional phases. 

